I do realize that this shirt has now
become a recognizable staple of my
videos I've made so many videos wearing
the same mustard yellow shirt this is
not entirely because my wardrobe is
small my wardrobe is small and humble as
it may be what you will realize dear
viewer if you start making youtube
videos is that even fewer of your
clothes look decent on camera so
anything a lot of menswear has little
lines cross-hatching little little fine
patterns like blue and white stripes it
doesn't work on camera or there's just
something about the color so the which
which doesn't work on camera just
talking to my girlfriend off camera for
a second where you have her with me
live-streaming when I was live-streaming
talking to the audience and someone came
on angry the one of the main ways people
would insult me was by claiming that I
was rich and they'd be like oh that's a
really nice $2,000 watch slamming me for
being uh sorry my girlfriend seen on my
watches I the most expensive watch it I
own is the one you gave me but I don't I
don't even think that's $200 yeah okay
anyway whatever cheap she bought me a
nice watch as a gift for anyway um and
and you know I remember once also so but
the thing the thing was funny was this
happened often enough that regular
members of my audience would respond to
these people instead of me and they knew
they've been watching my channel already
for years I have over a thousand videos
so you get a response like uh no he's
had that watch for three years like know
he had that watch already before he left
Canada to live in [ __ ] like you know
specific events or something and I
remember I remember once maybe that's
only happen once someone came in it was
insulting me you like wow that's a
really great suit jacket you're wearing
like that's you know a suit jacket and I
still have that it was the gray
no it's actually older than that no one
in it so it just needs to know it's an
old gray gray suit jacket I wore it the
first time I talked to your dad actually
yes it's a european-style suit jacket
and and a whole bunch of people know
it's like no he's made like 300 videos
like we were insulting with is a
brand-new thousand so it's as few
articles of clothing as I may own and as
mutually similar as he may be a lot of
my clothes are identical anyway it looks
even smaller when you're when you're
coming on camera to to do these things
so if you if you start a YouTube channel
I think people who work in news
broadcasting or something they're also
aware of this probably news broadcasters
go no no I could only buy a solid color
and I can only do this I can't I can't
do anything with pinstripes or whatever
you know and we can start shopping for
for YouTube that could be a hit video
series menswear vegan menswear clothes
shopping for YouTube okay so I turn now
to the the reason for making this video
this is a video that I have actually
wanted to make for years this deals with
some themes that have him on my desk or
on my docket for over three years that I
really wanted to make a video discussing
and then there's the cause of the moment
to spark the political context for why
it's being made now in the first few
days of October of 2018 and that spark
is as you will have gathered the current
political philosophy of Jordan V
Peterson let's start with the crumbs
here people let's start with some
tangible small fragments of the the
story or the the big issue of want to
tell in Southeast Asia I used to live in
Laos Cambodia Thailand um and you'd keep
crossing paths with Christian
missionaries out there I was there doing
humanitarian work and studying Buddhism
and history and politics I was doing all
kinds of things humanitarian
research-based but a significant
percentage of the other people who could
speak English whether they were white or
Asia where they are trying to convert
people to Christianity
or to Mormonism or some other Western
religion and sometimes they'd admit it
to you sometimes they would try to keep
it concealed and sometimes it would be
revealed in other peculiar ways so there
was this one family living out there in
a fairly remote part of Southeast Asia
and I remember they had the books out
they left the books out on a coffee
table that they were using to try to I
think convert people to Christianity or
I don't know I persuade them or what
have you and the one I picked up and
looked at they were all kind of very
simple story books because of the
language barrier the one that I picked
up was a retelling of the story of the
prophet Elijah okay so babe you grew up
Christian you you my girlfriend in
church nod not deeply but you know you
were you were dragged to church from
time to time and your mother's still I
think identify this as strongly
religious can you can you from memory
tell me the story of the prophet Elijah
do don't do it just do you have any
memory of this so it's an interesting
one because it's really it's interesting
because it's forgotten I think it's an
example of how embarrassed many
Christians are by the the brutal
simplicity of their own religious
tradition I mean I think I think you
know cutting the foreskin off the penis
circumcision I think many of these
things are embarrassing and the in their
brutality and their simplicity but you
know how does Elijah prove that the God
of Israel is the one true God he has a
fire-making competition and the miracle
is that the God the God of the Jews the
god of the Christians Yahweh he makes a
real big fireball
it's miracle and the other the other
tribe their God you can't do that it's
so awful and it's such an awful story
and I would feel
if it were my religion if I believe this
or I wanted to invite other people
believe it if you're in a context in
Southeast Asia where the religion you're
competing with is reasonably
philosophically sophisticated something
like Buddhism Buddhism Confucianism
Taoism all these traditions are out
there whatever religion it is you're
you're competing with to have to stand
up and hold up this pamphlet or this
book and read the story of Elisha the
Prophet and say oh the reason why you
should believe in our religion or
support our tradition or or our cultural
values is because of this story of a man
who lit some fire some wood on fire
magically and it made a really big
fireball and some other God couldn't do
that
not that we can date not that we today
can can produce this miracle not that we
can stack up the wood and act out the
same script no and you know um you know
it's such a kind of sad and sobering
contrast to the type of you know area
di't debates about atheism versus
religion that we see here on YouTube
that we see dr. Jordan Peterson engaged
in and so on this is the brutal Stone
Age simplicity that all monotheism is
built on this tribal notion that one
person's God is better than another so I
mean the other example I just throw out
there I saw this textbook that was being
promoted by Christians in Laos
so Laos at that time was still a
communist country it still is today
so it's ruled and controlled by the by a
communist party and the status of
different Christian missionary groups
can be suppressed or controlled to to
varying extents it varies from from case
to case but there was a Christian group
there who set themselves up as an
educational charity so they were
claiming that they weren't Christian
missionaries right that they were just
there to teach science and math and
English that they were benefiting the
poor people and not converting to
Christianity and they had a book that
was um natural science I think was was
the title
something like that it's not just nature
something like that the natural world
maybe and you open to page one and the
book read it's all in very simple
English with illustrations what is the
ocean God made the ocean next page
like what what is the jungle what is the
forest God created Joe the whole book
wasn't just creationism it wasn't like a
scientific area dite form of creationism
it was just this kind of like
unbelievably caveman simple argument
that whatever question you wanted to ask
about natural screams of the natural
world
the answer was allegedly that this is
how God created the universe
now again you know when you look at it
when you pick up and look at a document
like that as embarrassed as you may feel
just as a human being like you just
think wow this is so stupid
I would feel so much more embarrassed if
this were my religion or if this maybe
if I were a Christian who donated money
to this charity thinking it was really
helping people then you look at these
these these embarrassing and empathetic
materials so the reality of missionary
Christianity the reality of biblical
Christianity and the reality of the fact
that any religion in the 21st century is
still dragging with it
the ancient legacy of things like
circumcision general mutilation slavery
you know excuses for the brutality of
war racism or what have you it varies
from religion to religion a cosmology
that makes no sense I mean I'm sorry
I've read the Old Testament of study
these texts the pillars of the earth
holding up an adamantine crystal vault
of the sky the idea of separating two
oceans one ocean above the sky and below
the actual cosmology the belief in the
shape of the earth and what the earth is
the promises about the end of the world
all of this must inevitably shock modern
sensibilities and it's shocking
even to people in Cambodia
who are not literate in any language
it's shocking
even in communist Laos Laos a country
that's communist yes but a country that
also has a long history of involvement
with Buddhism other fairly sophisticated
traditions in terms of literate
literature written philosophy and and
what have you how now do we cope with
this sense of of shock and and
discomfort jordan vbeaute ursin is now
getting a lot of public interest but
basically offering a sort of Jungian
analysis and trying to rescue the value
of the narrative the value of the the
the feeble as something quite
independent from the existence or
non-existence of God
Jordan B Peterson's position is in
effect that mythology is part of the
scaffolding of civilization and if we
take away the scaffolding civilization
will collapse so do all right normally
guys I do these videos absolutely no
handwritten notes because there was such
a delay in making this video I should
have a couple of things noted down um
yeah so the way I wrote this earlier was
Jordan Peterson is inviting us to
imagine that the mythology that sustains
a good society must be ineffably good so
what is so great about a story about
elijah the prophet lighting a fire and
his fire he magically has this great big
fire the proof sees what's great about
that story
what is great or good or moral or
important or profound or significant or
meaningful or even interesting about
that story what is interesting about a
story here here's one that Jordan
Peterson likes to quote and allude to
quite often what's interesting in me for
what a story about a man being swallowed
by a whale the story of Jonah and the
Whale what's meaningful or interesting
about Noah and his ark and this is
leaving aside you know the more
troubling questions of justifications
for slavery
you know obviously the unequal status of
women whatever other topical issue you
want to pick a bone within the Bible but
just even accepting his kind of Jungian
hero narrative approach why would those
stories be meaningful now again I've
already given you join me Peterson's
answer although some are smellin Wars
the idea is that these are myths that
have sustained court I think you would
say created and sustained a morally good
Society and therefore in some ineffable
sense the myths themselves are good
they're morally good they create and
sustain ethical values now one was there
to respond to this one I have seen
others making the internet and one I
have not yet seen others make one
response to this is to say well why why
this tradition why this society what
what gives Authority moral authority or
just salience or importance or interest
what gives priority and precedence to
the Christian tradition in contrast to
the Buddhist tradition and as I've
indicated to you with my opening salvo
my opening set of crumbs my opening set
of examples this is a question that's
unfolding in the real world right now
will Buddhism still exist a hundred
years from now the Communists tried very
very hard to destroy Buddhism some of
the Communists are still trying and
Aries have tried very very hard to
destroy Buddhism and I think it's fair
to say they are still trying and they're
gonna try all the harder Muslims the
Islamic faith is trying very hard to
destroy Buddhism now I am NOT a Buddhist
I can tell you many things that are
wrong and bad about Buddhism but I do
not know anyone who sincerely thinks the
world would be a better place if the
nation of Thailand converted to Islam on
mass if Thailand with all of its
troubles cease to be a culturally
Buddhist country and instead became a
dominant predominantly Muslim country
like Indonesia I don't know anyone who
really thinks that would be a net
benefit it's needless to say I don't
hang out with Muslim fundamentalists
obviously someone who sincerely believed
that converting to Islam is the
difference between going to hell and not
going to hell they would believe that
but of course at the same time even when
you talk to Muslims if you ask them
where they would rather go on vacation
oh where they could have a better life
and so on a lot of them are going to
admit to you pretty readily that these
these Buddhist countries is imperfect as
they may be in many ways present a much
more appealing society than the Muslim
hunters they may have grown up in
themselves or they may they may be
returning to at the end of their their
vacation so this is not a purely
hypothetical question when we ask why
why would it be this story about a whale
from the Bible as opposed to a set of
stories taken from from Buddhism now I
notice it's because of who Jordan
Pearson's audience is normally the
example they give is Japan they say well
if you think Canada is a good Society
and the role of Christianity in Canadian
society has been good well what about
Japan and the role of Buddhism in
creating a sustaining Japanese society
in Japanese public values and Jordan B
Peterson's answers to that question
whether or not Japan is specified
whenever I've seen him pressed on the
issue of Buddhism he immediately
responds by saying that he believes that
the Buddha was some kind of magical
figure equal to Jesus Christ he gives a
completely mystical and baffling answer
that he he grudges to Buddhism some kind
of status equal to Oceania now that
answer is bizarre in many ways because
it actually undercuts the first premise
that began this this discussion I
presented the fact that Jordan Peterson
is claiming a unique and indeed salvific
significance for these stories that
neither stands nor falls with the claim
that the judeo-christian god is real it
doesn't stand or fall with the claim
that Jesus Christ was an historically
real person it doesn't stand or fall
with the claim that Jesus could work
nearer
coal's are come back from the dead and
so to hear this answer indicate you know
the person of Jesus and the person of
the Buddha as vindicating these
traditions the the actual compliments of
these people rather than more of a kind
of Jungian analysis some kind of you
know I don't know some kind of statement
about these these myths so these these
bodies of literature or the social world
they've played it is it is unsettling to
hear him say this so that leg of the
argument I have heard before I've heard
people raising the question of why
Christianity why not put ISM but if
we're asking this question sincerely I
think we also say why Christianity and
why not Batman why would there be a
special emphasis on a set of texts that
most people only find interesting when
they are forced to study them whether
that's forced in a classroom or forced
in a convent or forced in a system of
education that that rewards them for
their assiduity why is it that the
stories the narratives the hero myths
that people actually voluntarily line up
and pay money to see and hear in our
time are being ignored - instead
valorize as having this unique moral
purpose in creating sustaining our
society - instead valorize the stories
that are told if we're being honest in
empty empty church pews empty empty
cathedrals you know there isn't an
outpouring of public interest for the
story of Elijah the Prophet there isn't
an outpouring of public interest in the
story of Jonah and the Whale nor Noah
and Noah's Ark and all of these stories
have been adapted into children's books
cartoons video games and movies and none
of them reach the audience nor the the
level of interest and engagement that
are reached by spider-man
Batman Superman and so on so this raises
another you know I don't know at least
interesting possibility that even if
someone did
sincerely embrace the ethic and
political philosophy of Jordan Peterson
this would not lead to a revival of
Christianity but might lead to
reinvigorated pop culture discourse
because you'd look anew at you know
these kinds of symbols and hero myths in
our culture and say hey if we're really
being honest about it these stories
these stories that we tell to children
these stories that children sit in their
bed and read with a flashlight I mean
you know the immediacy of the experience
of reading a comic book like Batman or
x-men these stories that for many of us
was how we learned how to read in the
first place and confronted us with the
first images we'd ever seen of war and
violence and questions of life and death
and love and mourning that the hero myth
as its encountered in comic books and
and this type of this type of movie this
type of movie that in some ways is
overtly designed to be children's
entertainment but of course in some ways
always strangely adults-only whether
it's in the darkness of the themes the
you know the presence of murder and
violence and what-have-you
it's it's a very very strange tightrope
that this particular form of heroic pop
culture tries to walk and create a
dramatic tension and presenting these
people's heroes you know who indeed is
the Hercules of our time and so in this
video I'm mostly going to say Heracles
not Hercules they're two two ways of
pronouncing the same name in modern
English who indeed is is Heracles in our
culture is it in fact you know the Jesus
Christ of of Jordan Peterson is it
Jordan Peterson's ludicrous semiotic
reinterpretation of the Bible whether
that's Moses or Jesus or the you know
Elijah
or the man swallowed by a whale or can
we say no you know the the Hercules
figures of our time in their moral
function as well as in this narrative
function that Jordan Peterson talk as
much very clearly that role has to be
recognized in Batman Superman spider-man
and I say this like it or not we may not
like it maybe all of us would feel more
comfortable if our children were growing
up reading Hamlet reading Shakespeare
reading something we recognized as high
literature as being edifying or
educational but the reality may be that
the education they're getting is instead
from from pop culture sources so more
than three years ago I really wanted to
make a video talking about the
difference between the hero and the hero
myth in popular culture in the 20th
century 21st century etc although it may
have changed then within this period of
over a hundred years um you know in
contrast to mythological heroes
including you know Heracles Theseus
Gilgamesh and and what-have-you and this
is partly in response to another YouTube
video a YouTube video I can't find
online anymore
from the channel comic pop comic pops a
fairly popular channel and they had
somebody in with a legitimate university
degree discussing with a regular host
basically the contrast between hero
mythology in antiquity pre-modern hero
myths and the hero myths today
and I really felt that that video of
that discussion which is quite lengthy I
remembered being over an hour long I
felt that they actually missed every
every crucial important point that I
felt separated
the myths of antiquity of the pre-modern
world from from mythology today obvious
maybe that was just because they wanted
to focus on the similarities um very few
people today even when I spend time with
people with PhDs very few people seem to
know about the death
of Herakles and I think it's significant
to just point out that the heroes of
ancient times here heroes of medieval
times of all pre-modern times their
stories didn't just have an origin they
also had an ending
they had a death and and from the
audience's perspective right from the
beginning you know the death is known
the death is part of the package of the
story of this hero it's part of the
moral of the story you know if you like
and the death of Heracles is
tremendously dramatic and tremendously
agonizing and it contains elements of
betrayal and revenge and despite the
fact that Heracles is physically
invincible or seemingly so he's this
tremendously strong powerful mountain of
a man he's poisoned by his own wife and
he's poisoned through a man or the
poison enters through his skin so we
call it contact poison and it is a long
slow agonizing poison and the pain is so
terrible that he is weeping and begging
and whimpering to be put onto the
funeral pyre while he's still alive
while he's still talking to be put out
of his misery he would prefer to be
burned alive than to endure the pain of
the poison any longer even though
obviously that's maybe there's some
possibility that he will recover from
that poison now why does the wife of
Heracles poison him I'm not telling the
whole myth here obviously but I think
this is enough the purpose of this video
because he cheated on her because he
found a new younger perhaps more
beautiful woman whom he brought back
after going on a typical heroic
adventure to another Kingdom and
performing various miraculous acts and
again it is it it is a kind of
prototypical hero myth he wins the the
hand of the princess in marriage so the
daughter
the king in this exotic foreign kingdom
becomes his bride and he brings her back
to his hometown where he already has a
wife who then out of jealousy poisons
him and he dies if you guys know the
myth you'll know I'm leaving out some of
the details here of where she gets the
poison and what her motives are and so
on and so forth but hey now again it's
interesting that in our times most
people do not know this if you just
raise the issue of the the death of
Heracles they're often kind of [ __ ] when
I don't know what he died yeah before
the modern era of serialized
commercialized fiction all heroes died
their death was a part of their life and
it's really significant to say that the
construction of the modern hero and
modern episodic fiction is completely
fixated on an origin and on an
impossible never-ending mission so
Batman has an origin story and you know
very often not always the issues or the
story arcs can be read in any order
because Batman's character is never
gonna change his mission what he's never
going to accomplish trying to accomplish
is never going to change there are
actually exceptions to this so Batman
may not be the best example but Batman
is never gonna die he's never gonna get
older
he's never gonna fall in love get
married and have children
no again I hesitated saying this because
in reality what I've just said as a
generalization it was true for many
decades of the Batman franchise but
finally the writers and the corporation
they did run out of ideas and some of
you may know Batman Nell has had a child
and then the child was killed and
brought back from the dead I mean it's
you know it's ridiculous but ultimately
Batman did did have a kid because the
writer material a struggle that might be
a better example has been the long
editorial struggle with spider-man
spider-man at Marvel Comics he kept
getting older and he kept getting
married and settling down and then one
excuse or another would
be come up with try to get spider-man to
revert to his situation where he was
kind of just a recent college graduate
where he was single and young one way or
another the editorial board at the
corporation of Marvel Comics basically
wanted to be going back to the same
status quo
spider-man like Batman is completely
defined by an origin story but there's
no destination there's no end point and
again with someone like Heracles he's
really the old standard Heracles you
know basically becomes the king you know
he isn't just here he doesn't just keep
fighting crime forever on the streets he
ascends to a higher level of power the
modern heroes aren't don't ascend
Heracles falls in love he gets married
he gets women pregnant he has children
and the children grow up again all of
this is actually part and parcel of the
the death of Heracles all these things
you know come up and this can never
happen with the modern hero right um sex
and death and murder I mean people
really being killed these are all kind
of crucial elements of any real hero
mythology pre-modern mythology and they
were exactly what's deleted or
obfuscated in constructing
commercialized episodic hero myths okay
now this does not exhaust the
observations I could offer you here as I
already mentioned I mean I'm also
familiar with with Buddhist literature
and Buddhist history you could get into
other contrasts in other cultures and
you could just say more about the
peculiar educational value or lack
thereof of having generations raised
with really Batman Superman and
spider-man being the major mythological
heroes in their lives which I think even
if you grew up Christian for most
Christians that is what they are I
recently taught a series of courses in
China my students were Chinese and I had
a unit in the course so for several
different classes
where I challenge them to answer this
question is this a good story for adults
to be teaching children and each student
was assigned a different story so one
would be given Batman one spider-man
Iron Man and I gave them in both Chinese
in English some information about these
comic book characters not all of them
were superheroes one student was given
the spongebob spongebob squarepants that
cartoon character but I mean it boiled
down to a two-point question one look in
the United States of America almost all
children are raised being taught this
story again and again being shown it in
different forms again and again cartoons
movies comic books video games this is a
powerful message encoded into them again
again it must mean something so first
question is why why do parents teach
this to their children in the Western
world in the United States of America in
particular why and then the second
question is do you think that schools
here in China should teach this story
you know why or why not should people
here in China be teaching their children
this story and then the third question
is in effect so draw some conclusions
here is this a good story is this a good
story to be told what are we teaching
our children now you guys will have
already guessed I think that any sincere
reflection and examination of the
significance of the Bible stories is
going to come to very very negative
conclusions on those stories about why
why do we teach these to our children
should we be teaching their children is
it a good thing to teach a child to
blindly believe in whichever God can
make a bigger fireball to believe in
miracles and magic that you can compare
to religions at a magic ceremony of
trying to make a big fireball I don't
think any Christian even a devout
Christian doesn't want their child's
faith to be based on on this kind
frankly this kind of witchcraft
what Christians for vilas witchcraft but
it's within the Bible of course there's
material on human sacrifice in the Old
Testament slavery selling your own
children into slavery all kinds of
terrible stuff but leaving that aside we
know that people are gonna cherry-pick
and focus on a few stories I don't think
that the story of Moses or Noah and the
Ark or you know Jonah and the Whale
these stories if we're really looking at
them and even this detached way what
what is the lesson that children are
supposed to to draw from this and I
think you know it's no less chilling and
it's it's even more important to look it
this way honestly at again frankly
whether it's Batman spider-man or Santa
Claus you know the story of the
so-called secular Christmas you know
what is it that we're teaching children
here and why and what is the ideological
function of this mythology in modern
society there is a sense in which all of
us agree with Jordan Peterson even if we
don't want to even we hate to there is a
sense in which stories and narratives
form the scaffolding of our culture
there's a sense in which they they
inculcate and sustain and maintain and
hold up cultural values or at least a
common vocabulary of cultural values
that you know all of us to some extent
rely upon just in communicating just in
communicating our feelings and so on you
know they provide a kind of palette of
colors that we may take to to paint
their own picture express their own
meanings and our own concerns but what's
so peculiar to me is that Jordan Pearson
celebrates this he celebrates this as
something positive and you know I don't
see how any thinking human being can
look at this as anything other than than
tragic what we're looking at in the
Bible are the excuses that people told
themselves for why they'd cut off
part of their penis circumcision they
had this totally irrational custom in
their culture and they made up excuses
for it and those excuses turned into
stories myths and fables um you know
when you look in the Bible at the
material there that's on slavery
you look in the material the the Bible
they're about so many it's a picture of
the Bible but so many things these are
excuses that I mean it's it's not enough
to say that the modern world can and
should live without such excuses I think
the reality is that we already are
living without those excuses so why
would we now - eyes them and valorize
them as having some some ineffable moral
value in just being repeated in
repeating these old and outmoded excuses
when the things being excused are no
longer even ours no longer even
meaningful or salient for for us to be
making those excuses for them now you
know why was the Batman story first told
what were we making excuses for the
ideological function of those stories
changed a lot from decade to decade in
the history of these characters at one
time Batman was an idle millionaire who
helped the poor because there was a
cultural notion at that time that that
was what Idol millionaires did he was an
idle millionaire playboy who went to
social functions and solved mysteries is
an amateur detective and who sometimes
dressed up in a cape to fight
supernatural villains I mean you know
it's it's somewhat silly it is what it
is but you can actually kind of
construct what were the cultural
concerns of the time just the very first
year of the Batman comic and then we can
talk about and chart how this changed
how the themes really change
today I mean everyone knows the the
major theme in Batman is that this is
somebody trying to take revenge trying
to take revenge for the fact that his
parents were were killed and it's a very
very strange thing for a parent to put
that story into the hand of a child and
to say you know in this world the police
are corrupt and there is no justice and
you know the people you love can be
killed in the blink of an eye that crime
is everywhere and so on but that you
know the way to solve that is with your
fists is by by punching people by
fighting it not metaphorically and then
that that fight never ends that you
never settle down you never fall in love
and never have kids and never like
Hercules never become the the king as
opposed to the the wandering hero or
wandering warrior there's no progression
there's no crescendo there's no end
there's just this grief and need for
revenge so on spider-man it's actually a
pretty fundamentally similar sense of
trauma and reflection no point repeating
it but it's not his parents who are
killed it's another relative who's
killed and he's left with the sense of
remorse and regret and resentment and
his fuels him to go on his mission
pursuing quote-unquote justice but again
justice in a sense that's very hard to
construe you know even in the eyes of a
child okay how is this how is this
period going to be remembered when we
look back on Jordan Peterson and what he
managed to do in in politics in this era
I've got to tell you my suspicion is
that ten years from now
Jordan Peterson will not really be
remembered at all I don't I don't mean
he'll completely disappear but the one
sense in which Jordan Pearson is is
really making himself radicular
is that I don't think he sets goals I
don't think he sets aspirations for what
he's trying to accomplish not even to
the same you know limited extent that
figures like Bernie Sanders do Bernie
Sanders in some way a typical leftist
Bernie Sanders won't be happy until
there's free tuition for poor people
that poor people can go to college and
get a college education for free let's
just leave it at that
of course he has other goals to deal
with health care for the poor what have
you it's very likely Bernie Sanders will
fail I think I mean he's very old man
it's quite possible Bernie Sanders will
not be alive ten years from now just
just due to old age but it's it's very
clear how Bernie Sanders will be
remembered even if all of those attempts
end in failure with Jordan Peterson ten
years from now and even today all that
people will be left with is a sense of
confusion of what was it that he was
trying to accomplish and then it will be
ineffable for anyone to say to what
extent he succeeded and to what extent
he failed it's very clear that he is
telling his audience they can be better
people and they can raise better
children by reviving their interest in
the church and the Bible and my position
is at the opposite extreme I think that
you can be a better person and you can
raise better put children by replacing
the Bible by replacing Christmas with
the celebration of something more
meaningful but the reason why I've
spoken at such length in this video is
that as soon as we start thinking about
these things in a level-headed
open-minded and critical way I think it
becomes very clear that it's not just
the Christian
Bible we after a place there's a
tremendous creative burden on us in the
21st century to replace Batman and
spider-man and a whole edifice of pop
culture that you know unlike the
Christian Bible isn't linked to a
history of genocide isn't linked to
circumcision or slavery but that
fundamentally doesn't serve our interest
as parents and doesn't inform the next
generation about the values of that
edifice of civilization that scaffolding
holding up society but if you want to
say that doesn't even serve that
productive function in the same way that
the tragic death of heracles once did